One morning, when Gregor Samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin.
The bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready to slide off any moment. 
"What's happened to me?" he thought. It wasn't a dream.
It showed a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm towards the viewer.
Gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull weather.
"Oh, God", he thought, "what a strenuous career it is that I've chosen!
Doing business like this takes much more effort than doing your own business at home, and on top of that there's the curse of travelling, worries about making train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or become friendly with them.
It can all go to Hell!" He felt a slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he didn't know what to make of; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder.
He slid back into his former position. "Getting up early all the time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.
And he looked over at the alarm clock, ticking on the chest of drawers.
He was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable to decide to get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. There was a cautious knock at the door near his head.
Gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit, acquired from his travelling, of locking all doors at night even when he was at home. It was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had to blow himself up a little and they fell off by themselves.
So then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed first, carefully turning his head to the side.
This he managed quite easily, and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of his body eventually followed slowly in the direction of the head.
And so he set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body out of the bed all at the same time.
If he succeeded in falling out of bed in this way and kept his head raised as he did so he could probably avoid injuring it.
When Gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new method was more of a game than an effort, all he had to do was rock back and forth - it occurred to him how simple everything would be if somebody came to help him.
After a while he had already moved so far across that it would have been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard.
The time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final decision very soon.
Then there was a ring at the door of the flat. 
"That'll be someone from work", he said to himself, and froze very still, although his little legs only became all the more lively as they danced around.
Gregor only needed to hear the visitor's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the chief clerk himself.
Why did Gregor have to be the only one condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highl suspicious at the slightest shortcoming?
And more because these thoughts had made him upset than through any proper decision, he swang himself with all his force out of the bed. 
There was a loud thump, but it wasn't really a loud noise.
"Something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk in the room on the left.
"Gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief clerk has come round and wants to know why you didn't leave on the early train. We don't know what to say to him.
So why did his sister not go and join the others?
And why was she crying?
There was no need to worry about things like that yet. 
Gregor was still there and had not the slightest intention of abandoning his family. 
It was only a minor discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be found for it later on, it was not something for which Gregor could be sacked on the spot.
And it seemed to Gregor much more sensible to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at him and crying.
"Did you understand a word of all that?" the chief clerk asked his parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us".
Gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer.
So they couldn't understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to him, clearer than before - perhaps his ears had become used to the sound.
They had realised, though, that there was something wrong with him, and were ready to help.
The first response to his situation had been confident and wise, and that made him feel better. 
He felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and from the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and surprising achievements - although he did not really distinguish one from the other.
Gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair.
Once there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door, holding himself upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his legs.
So Gregor did not go into the room, but leant against the inside of the other door which was still held bolted in place.
In this way only half of his body could be seen, along with his head above it which he leant over to one side as he peered out at the others.
On the wall exactly opposite there was photograph of Gregor when he was a lieutenant in the army, his sword in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth respect for his uniform and bearing.
But the chief clerk had turned away as soon as Gregor had started to speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders as he left.
The door was slammed shut with the stick, then, finally, all was quiet.
He spent the whole night there.
Even before the first day had come to an end, his father had explained to Gregor's mother and sister what their finances and prospects were.
Their business misfortune had reduced the family to a state of total despair, and Gregor's only concern at that time had been to arrange things so that they could all forget about it a quickly as possible.
For the first fourteen days, Gregor's parents could not bring themselves to come into the room to see him.
He threw himself down on his bed, and from the dressing table he took the nice apple that he had put there the previous evening for his breakfast. 
He felt well and confident, he had failed to go into work at the bank this morning but that could easily be excused because of the relatively high position he held there. Should he really send in his explanation?
f nobody believed him, and in this case that would be understandable, he could bring Mrs. Grubach in as a witness, or even the old pair from across the street, who probably even now were on their way over to the window opposite.
Then he was so startled by a shout to him from the other room that he struck his teeth against the glass.
It was only the shout that startled him, this curt, abrupt, military shout, that he would not have expected from the policeman called Franz.
The policemen laughed, but continued to insist, "It's got to be a black coat."
He opened the wardrobe himself, spent a longtime searching through all the clothes, and chose his best black suit which had a short jacket that had greatly surprised those who knew him, then he also pulled out a fresh shirt and began, carefully, to get dressed.
He secretly told himself that he had succeeded in speeding things up by letting the policemen forget to make him have a bath.
Once he was properly dressed, K. had to pass by Willem as he went through the next room into the one beyond, the door of which was already wide open
K. knew very well that this room had recently been let to a typist called 'Miss Bürstner'.
What point there would be, in telephoning a state attorney when I'm ostensibly under arrest?
Go away," he then called across to them.
They did not disappear entirely, though, but seemed to be waiting for the moment when they could come back to the window without being noticed.
The supervisor may have agreed with him, at least K. thought that was what he saw from the corner of his eye.
But it was just as possible that he had not even been listening as he had his hand pressed firmly down on the table and seemed to be comparing the length of his fingers.
The two policemen were sitting on a chest covered with a coloured blanket, rubbing their knees.
The three young people had put their hands on their hips and were looking round aimlessly.
Everything was still, like in some office that has been forgotten about.
In my opinion, it's best now to stop wondering about whether you're proceeding correctly or incorrectly, and to bring the matter to a peaceful close with a mutual handshake.
If you are of the same opinion, then please... " and he walked up to the supervisor's desk and held out his hand to him.
But instead, he stood up, picked up a hard round hat that was laying on Miss Bürstner's bed and put it carefully onto his head, using both hands as if trying on a new hat.
No, why should you think that? 
You're simply under arrest, nothing more than that. 
I've done and now I've seen how you've taken it.
That's enough for one day and we can take our leave of each other, for the time being at least. 
All of them had gathered together into a narrow space by the door.
He could have gone directly to his room, but as he wanted to speak with Mrs. Grubach he went straight to her door and knocked.
She was sat at the table with a knitted stocking and a pile of old stockings in front of her. 
K. looked round the room, it looked exactly as it usually did, the breakfast dishes, which had been on the table by the window that morning, had already been cleared away.
"Why are you working so late?" he asked.
Will she shake hands with me?
He did not feel at all like going to bed, so he decided to stay up, and this would also give him the chance to find out when Miss Bürstner would arrive home.
Perhaps it would also still be possible, even if a little inappropriate, to have a few words with her. 
When he had become tired of looking out onto the empty street he slightly opened the door to the living room so that he could see anyone who entered the flat from where he was and lay down on the couch.
It was on a Sunday morning in the nicest time of Spring.
Georg Bendemann, a young merchant, sat in his private room on the first floor of one of the lightly built low-rise houses.
He had just finished writing a letter to a friend of his youth now living abroad.
After enclosing the letter in the envelope in playful slowness, he rested on his elbows on the desk and gazed through the window.
He pondered on how this friend, unsatisfied with his career at home, had years ago fled to Russia.
In the beginning, the business had developed quite well.
But long since then his fortune seemed to be stagnating.
The friend complained during his ever more seldom visits home.
His unfamiliar full beard barely covered a face that still showed the characteristics of youth.
His yellow skin tan seemed to indicate a progressing illness of some kind.
He mentioned lacking proper connections with the colony of compatriots there.
He reconciled himself to remaining a bachelor for good.
What should one write to a person like that, someone who has obviously arrived at a dead end?
Should one perhaps advise him to come home again?
This would be tantamount to telling him that his past efforts were a failure.
Georg thought it would be hard to tell him to come back and let himself be stared at by all.
And was it even certain that all the effort they might have to expend on him would in the end serve any purpose?
He might remain abroad in any case, embittered by the advice and more alienated from his friends than ever.
Maybe bringing him home would not prove to be a success at all.
His friend had not been home for the last three years.
The friend gave a scanty explanation for this by referring to the insecure political conditions in Russia.
On the other hand, these three years had brought many changes in Georg's own life.
Two years ago, the friend had learned of the death of Georg's mother.
Georg had also tackled the business with a greater determination.
The business had developed unexpectedly well, and further progress appeared imminent.
The friend had no inkling of these changes.
Georg much preferred to write about inconsequential matters rather than to admit that a month ago he had become engaged.
He told his bride about his friend and of their special correspondence relationship.
Georg decided that informing his friend about the engagement would not really be that harmful after all.
This Sunday morning he wrote a long letter in which he announced his engagement.
Holding this letter in his hand, Georg sat a long time at his desk facing the window.
He put the letter in his pocket and went out of his room.
Georg was surprised how dark his father's room was.
The father sat near the window in a corner that was decorated with various mementos of the late mother.
"Ah, Georg!" said the father and immediately came towards him.
His heavy dressing gown opened as he walked.
Georg passively followed the movements of the old man.
"Yes. Your friend," the father said with emphasis.
"I only wanted to tell you that I have announced my engagement to Petersburg after all."
The father laid the big newspaper onto the window sill and on the paper his glasses.
"Georg," the father said and widened his toothless mouth, "listen!"
"Do you really have this friend in Petersburg?"
Georg stood beside his father, who had let his head sink onto his breast.
"You have no friend in Petersburg."
"You were always a joker, and you have also not spared me."
"How can you possibly have a friend over there of all places?"
Georg knelt immediately next to the father.
The father was playing with his watch chain.
As soon as he was in bed everything seemed all right.
"Rest easy, you're well covered."
It was late evening when K. arrived.
The village lay deep in snow.
There was nothing to be seen of Castle Mount, for mist and darkness surrounded it.
K. stood on the wooden bridge looking up at what seemed to be a void.
He went in search of somewhere to stay the night.
The landlord had no room available, but was willing to let K. sleep on a straw mattress.
Several of the local rustics were still sitting over their beer.
K. fetched the straw mattress down from the attic himself and lay down near the stove.
It was warm, and soon he fell asleep.
A young man in town clothes stood beside K. with the landlord.
The young man introduced himself as the son of the castle warden.
“This village belongs to the castle,” said the young man.
“No one’s allowed to spend the night here without a permit from the count.”
“What village have I come to?” K. asked.
“There most certainly is a castle,” the young man said.
“And I need a permit to spend the night here?” asked K.
“Yes, you need a permit,” replied the young man, with a hint of derision.
“I’ll have to go and get a permit, then,” said K., yawning.
“From the count himself at midnight?” cried the young man.
“Is that impossible?” asked K., unruffled.
“I demand respect for the count’s authority!” the young man cried.
“I’m the land surveyor,” K. said quietly.
“My assistants will be arriving tomorrow by carriage with the instruments.”
“I contented myself with sleeping here because it was too late to present myself at the castle.”
“I’ll telephone and ask,” the young man said.
The young man told Mr. Fritz about K., a man of ragged appearance in his thirties.
The warden was asleep, but a deputy warden named Fritz was on the line.
Fritz went to make his inquiries, and they waited for the answer.
Soon Fritz rang back: “There’s no record of any land surveyor.”
K. thought they might all fall on him, so he crawled under the blanket.
“A mistake then?” asked the young man after the second call.
“How am I to explain it to the land surveyor now?” asked Fritz.
“They know all they need to know about me at the castle,” K. thought.
K. declined the landlord’s offer to move into another room.
“I’ll sleep here, thank you,” K. said as everyone hurried out.
He slept soundly until morning, scarcely disturbed by rats.
“There have never been complaints of poor pay,” the landlord said.
“I’m not timid, but it’s better to be on friendly terms with such gentlemen.”
K. asked the landlord if his assistants could stay at the inn.
“First I must find out what kind of work they want me to do,” K. said.
“You don’t know what the castle is like,” the landlord whispered.
As K. walked away, he noticed a dark portrait on the wall.
“Who’s that?” asked K.
“The castle warden,” said the landlord.
“His father is powerful too,” the landlord added.
K. laughed, “You think everyone is powerful.”
The castle lived up to K.’s expectations, but only from a distance.
As he came closer, K. thought the castle disappointing.
It was only a collection of cottages, and the paint had flaked off long ago.
The tower was a simple, round building with small windows shining in the sun.
K. stopped again, but his attention was distracted by a school nearby.
The teacher greeted K. from a distance.
“Don’t you like the castle?” the teacher asked.
“Strangers never do,” the teacher added.
K. changed the subject and asked if he could visit the teacher.
“There’s no distinction between the local people and the castle,” said the teacher.
“I’ll come visit you,” K. said, but the teacher only nodded.
The village seemed never-ending, with more and more little houses.
At last K. turned into a narrow alley where the snow lay even deeper.
“May I come into your house for a little while?” K. asked an old man.
“I’m very tired,” K. said as he staggered into the parlour of the cottage.
“Who are you?” cried a voice from the darkness.
“I’m the count’s land surveyor,” K. replied.
“Oh, it’s the land surveyor,” said a woman’s voice, and then there was silence.
K. sat down at last, surrounded by people but left alone.
“He’s drunk,” someone said.
"The drunken men whom he met, though it was a working day, completed the revolting misery of the picture."
"An expression of the profoundest disgust gleamed for a moment in the young man’s face."
"He walked along not observing what was around him, and not caring to observe it."
He was so badly dressed that even a man accustomed to shabbiness would have been ashamed to be seen in the street in such rags.
"There was such accumulated bitterness and contempt in his heart that he minded his rags least of all in the street."
It was a different matter when he met with acquaintances or former fellow students.
"Yet when a drunken man shouted at him, he stopped suddenly and clutched at his hat."
His hat was completely worn out, rusty with age, all torn and bent.
Not shame, but a feeling akin to terror overtook him.
He muttered in confusion, 'That’s the worst of all!'
"A trivial detail might spoil the whole plan."
He had not far to go; he knew indeed how many steps it was from the gate of his lodging house.
"He had counted them once when lost in dreams."
At the time he had put no faith in those dreams.
"Now, a month later, he regarded this 'hideous' dream as an exploit to be attempted."
"His excitement grew more and more violent at every step."
With a sinking heart and a nervous tremor, he went up to a huge house which on one side looked on the canal.
"This house was let out in tiny tenements and was inhabited by working people of all kinds."
"Three or four door-keepers were employed in the building."
The young man was very glad to meet none of them.
He slipped unnoticed through the door and up the staircase.
"It was a back staircase, dark and narrow, but he was familiar with it already, and he liked all these surroundings."
"There his progress was barred by some porters moving furniture."
The flat had been occupied by a German clerk in the civil service and his family. Now the fourth floor would be untenanted except by the old woman.
That’s a good thing anyway, he thought.
He rang the bell of the old woman’s flat.
"The bell gave a faint tinkle as though it were made of tin and not of copper."
"The old woman eyed her visitor with distrust. She was a diminutive, withered-up old woman of sixty, with sharp malignant eyes and a sharp little nose."
Her grizzled hair was thickly smeared with oil, and she wore no kerchief. Her thin long neck was knotted with a flannel rag.
Raskolnikov muttered, 'I came here a month ago.'
Perhaps she is always like that, he thought with unease.
"The old woman stepped aside, pointing to the door of the room."
"The room was brightly lighted up by the setting sun."
The furniture consisted of a sofa with a huge bent wooden back, an oval table in front of the sofa, and a dressing-table between the windows.
Everything was very clean; the floor and the furniture were brightly polished. There was not a speck of dust to be seen in the whole flat.
"'Lizaveta’s work,' thought the young man."
'I’ve brought something to pawn here,' he said, drawing out an old-fashioned silver watch.
"The old woman examined the watch, but Raskolnikov’s attention was elsewhere."
He could hear her unlocking the chest of drawers. 'So she carries the keys in a pocket on the right,' he thought.
It must be the top drawer, he reflected.
The old woman returned, holding some money.
"The young man took the money but did not leave at once."
'I may be bringing you something else soon,' he said hesitantly.
The old woman did not reply, and he went out.
"As he walked down the street, a wave of disgust swept over him."
"He muttered, 'Oh God, how loathsome it all is!'"
He walked like a drunken man, jostling against passers-by.
"At last, he noticed that he was standing close to a tavern."
He sat down at a sticky little table in a dark and dirty corner.
"After ordering some beer, he eagerly drank off the first glassful."
'All that’s nonsense,' he said hopefully.
"He felt cheerful as though suddenly freed from a terrible burden."
His thoughts became clearer, and he gazed around in a friendly way.
"But he had a dim foreboding that this happier mood was not normal."
"There were few people in the tavern. Besides the two drunken men he had met on the steps, there was a group who had just left."
"A man who appeared to be an artisan was sitting before a pot of beer."
His companion, a huge, stout man with a grey beard, had dropped asleep on the bench.
"At last, Raskolnikov was approached by a man who looked like a retired clerk."
The man spoke boldly, addressing Raskolnikov as though they were old acquaintances.
"He introduced himself as Marmeladov, a titular counsellor."
Honoured sir, may I engage you in conversation?
Raskolnikov, somewhat surprised, nodded.
"Poverty is not a vice, but beggary is, Marmeladov declared."
In beggary, a man is swept out of human society with a broom.
"He spoke of his daughter, who had been forced to take a yellow ticket."
'She lodges with a tailor, a man with a cleft palate.'
"The retired clerk grew more talkative as he became more drunk."
'She gives me all she earns, and I drink it!'
"Marmeladov’s face, despite his words, shone with pride when he mentioned his daughter."
"He described the poverty and suffering in his household."
I steal from my own family for drink, he confessed.
Raskolnikov listened, feeling a mixture of disgust and pity.
'I drink so that I may suffer twice as much!' Marmeladov declared.
"And so, in the depths of degradation, I find some comfort."
Raskolnikov felt an odd sense of kinship with the man's confession.
Honoured sir, my daughter is my only hope! Marmeladov exclaimed.
She sacrifices herself for the family, but I betray her.
"Raskolnikov listened quietly, unsure of what to say."
Finally, he said, 'And yet you continue down this path.'
Marmeladov nodded sadly. 'Yes, I am too weak to change.'
'But there is still time,' Raskolnikov said.
Marmeladov shook his head, 'Time is cruel, and I am its slave.'
With that, he emptied his glass, signaling the end of their conversation.
"Raskolnikov stood up and paid for both their drinks before leaving."
As he walked out into the night, the weight of Marmeladov's story settled on his shoulders.
"He felt the burden of his own secrets growing heavier with each step."
"For a moment, he wondered if confession might bring him the relief that Marmeladov sought."
"But then he dismissed the thought, knowing that his path was already chosen."
"The city streets were quiet as he made his way back to his lodgings."
"The night was oppressive, filled with the weight of unspoken fears and unanswered questions."
"At last, Raskolnikov reached his garret."
"He collapsed onto his bed, staring up at the ceiling, his mind racing."
Sleep would not come easily, but he knew that soon he would have to face the consequences of his choices.
"The darkness of the room mirrored the darkness growing within him."
"He closed his eyes, hoping for a moment of peace, but knowing it would not come."
His mind returned to the events of the day, to Marmeladov’s words.
"In his heart, he felt an undeniable connection to the man’s despair."
"Both of them, it seemed, were trapped in lives that were spiraling out of control."
"Raskolnikov clenched his fists, determined to resist the pull of that same despair."
"But deep down, he knew that it was already too late."
The wheel whirled around with my heart beating fast.
“Surely you are not a coward?” she asked suddenly.
My love for her increased with every passing day.
“I do not know,” I replied.
We had lost 4,200 gulden that night, much to my shock.
I stared at the wheel, hoping for an impossible miracle.
“I should have left when I had the chance,” I said bitterly.
“It’s just the way of things,” Astley said.
“Let us see what tomorrow brings,” she mused, unconcerned.
“You see? Zero again!” the Grandmother shouted.
In my frustration, I knew there was nothing I could do to change fate.
“I care not for anything else now,” I whispered.
The old lady was shaking with excitement.
“What should we do now?” she demanded of me, eyes wide.
Her excitement knew no bounds.
“Shall we go back for one more round?” she asked eagerly.
I stared at her in disbelief.
“The rules say we can’t risk more than 120 gulden at a time,” I reminded her.
We both watched as the wheel spun again.
“The stakes have never been higher,” I muttered under my breath.
My hands trembled as I placed the last bet.
She clutched my arm as the wheel whirled.
“Stake everything we have left!” she commanded.
My heart sank as I saw the ball settle in its place.
“Why should I leap into the abyss?” I asked.
My love for her was driving me mad, and I knew it.
"This time, we must win," she insisted.
The ball spun faster and faster until it came to a stop.
“It’s over,” I whispered, my voice hollow.
The old lady was unmoved by our loss.
“Shall we try again?” she asked, her eyes gleaming.
My hands trembled as I placed another bet, despite myself.
She seemed unfazed by our repeated failures.
I knew that I had to stop, but I couldn’t.
“The game isn’t over until you decide it is,” she said cryptically.
My head swam as the wheel spun yet again.
“You will never stop, will you?” Astley asked, his voice calm.
I nodded, unable to answer.
The air in the casino felt thick with tension.
My losses were piling up, but I kept playing.
“You must stop,” Astley said, placing a hand on my shoulder.
“It’s too late for that,” I replied bitterly.
“Then lose everything, if that’s what you wish,” he said coldly.
I couldn’t bring myself to walk away from the table.
My heart raced as I placed yet another foolish bet.
“It’s all or nothing,” I whispered.
The wheel spun and spun, never stopping.
“Why don’t you walk away?” Astley asked again.
I couldn’t answer him.
“You’ve lost more than just your money,” he remarked.
I clenched my fists, staring at the table in despair.
“One more round,” I muttered.
The game was consuming me, and I knew it.
“What’s the point?” I asked aloud.
“You’ll never win it all back,” he said with a shake of his head.
I stared at him, knowing he was right.
The tension in the room was suffocating.
I placed another bet, my hands shaking.
The ball spun wildly, my heart pounding in my chest.
I knew this would be my last chance.
“What will you do when you’ve lost everything?” Astley asked.
“I don’t know,” I replied truthfully.
My heart sank as I watched the ball settle into its place.
“You’ve lost,” he said, his voice cold and detached.
I couldn’t bring myself to look at him.
“It’s over,” I whispered, my voice hollow.
“Then leave,” he said simply.
“I can’t,” I replied, my voice shaking.
“Then lose everything,” he repeated coldly.
I turned to the table once more, placing another bet.
The ball spun around, taunting me with its speed.
My heart raced, my hands shaking uncontrollably.
“It’s all or nothing,” I said under my breath.
The wheel spun again, my fate sealed.
“What are you doing?” Astley asked, his voice incredulous.
I couldn’t answer him.
“You’re throwing it all away,” he said in disbelief.
“I know,” I replied quietly.
“Then stop!” he shouted.
I didn’t stop.
“You can still walk away,” he insisted.
“It’s too late for that,” I whispered.
“You’ve gone mad,” he muttered.
“Maybe,” I replied with a bitter smile.
“You’ve lost everything,” he said with a shake of his head.
“I know,” I replied, my voice hollow.
The ball settled into its final place.
“It’s over,” I whispered.
The old lady was shaking with excitement.
“Shall we try again?” she asked eagerly.
I stared at her in disbelief.
“We’ve lost everything,” I said quietly.
“Then let’s win it back,” she said with a grin.
“It’s impossible,” I muttered.
“Nothing is impossible,” she replied with a smile.
“Let’s go one more round,” she said, placing a hand on my arm.
“Are you mad?” I asked, my voice shaking.
“Maybe,” she replied with a grin.
I couldn’t believe what I was hearing.
At the same time, both he and the rest of the spectators were visibly impressed.
Do not think that I am very much impressed by that as a boxing title, but it meant a lot to Cohn. He cared nothing for boxing, in fact he disliked it, but he learned it painfully and thoroughly to counteract the feeling of inferiority and shyness he had felt on being treated as a Jew at Princeton.
But it seemed to fit Cohn. He was really very fast. He was so good that Spider promptly overmatched him and got his nose permanently flattened.
At the military school where he prepped for Princeton, and played a very good end on the football team, no one had made him race-conscious.
As he had been thinking for months about leaving his wife and had not done it because it would be too cruel to deprive her of himself, her departure was a very healthful shock.
It was his money and he discovered he liked the authority of editing. He was sorry when the magazine became too expensive and he had to give it up.
By that time, though, he had other things to worry about. He had been taken in hand by a lady who hoped to rise with the magazine.
They came to Europe, where the lady had been educated, and stayed three years.
He wrote a novel, and it was not really such a bad novel as the critics later called it, although it was a very poor novel. He read many books, played bridge, played tennis, and boxed at a local gymnasium.
Somebody kicked me under the table. I thought it was accidental and went on: “She’s been there two years and knows everything there is to know about the town. She’s a swell girl.”
“Hell,” I said, “why go to Strasbourg? We could go up to Bruges, or to the Ardennes.” “It doesn’t make any difference. Any girl. I couldn’t go, that would be all.”
Then several women had put themselves out to be nice to him, and his horizons had all shifted. For four years his horizon had been absolutely limited to his wife. For three years, or almost three years, he had never seen beyond Frances. I am sure he had never been in love in his life.
He was not in love yet but he realized that he was an attractive quantity to women, and that the fact of a woman caring for him and wanting to live with him was not simply a divine miracle. 
You understand me, he made some reservations, but on the whole the book to him was sound. It was all that was needed to set him off. I did not realize the extent to which it had set him off until one day he came into my office.
“You can talk Spanish. And it would be more fun with two of us.” “No,” I said, “I like this town and I go to Spain in the summer-time.” “All my life I’ve wanted to go on a trip like that,” Cohn said. He sat down. “I’ll be too old before I can ever do it.”
He was asleep with his head on his arms. I did not like to wake him up, but I wanted to lock the office and shove off. I put my hand on his shoulder. He shook his head. “I can’t do it,” he said, and put his head deeper into his arms.
I watched a good-looking girl walk past the table and watched her go up the street and lost sight of her, and watched another, and then saw the first one coming back again. She went by once more and I caught her eye, and she came over and sat down at the table. The waiter came up.
We turned off the Avenue up the Rue des Pyramides, through the traffic of the Rue de Rivoli, and through a dark gate into the Tuileries. She cuddled against me and I put my arm around her. She looked up to be kissed. She touched me with one hand and I put her hand away. 
By this time we were at the restaurant. I called to the _cocher_ to stop. We got out and Georgette did not like the looks of the place. “This is no great thing of a restaurant.”
We had another bottle of wine and Georgette made a joke. She smiled and showed all her bad teeth, and we touched glasses. “You’re not a bad type,” she said. “It’s a shame you’re sick. We get on well. What’s the matter with you, anyway?”
“You must come, Jake. We’re all going,” Frances said from the end of the table. She was tall and had a smile. “Of course, he’s coming,” Braddocks said. “Come in and have coffee with us, Barnes.”
“But Mr. Barnes introduced you as Mademoiselle Georgette Leblanc. Surely he did,” insisted Mrs. Braddocks, who in the excitement of talking French was liable to have no idea what she was saying.
I sat down at a table. Cohn was sitting there. Frances was dancing. Mrs. Braddocks brought up somebody and introduced him as Robert Prentiss. He was from New York by way of Chicago, and was a rising new novelist.
“I wasn’t cross,” I said. “I just thought perhaps I was going to throw up.” “Your fiancée is having a great success,” Mrs. Braddocks looked out on the floor where Georgette was dancing in the arms of the tall, dark one, called Lett.
We started out the door. Cohn was still talking to Brett. She said good night and took my arm. “Good night, Cohn,” I said. Outside in the street we looked for a taxi.
We stood against the tall zinc bar and did not talk and looked at each other. The waiter came and said the taxi was outside. Brett pressed my hand hard. I gave the waiter a franc and we went out. “Where should I tell him?” I asked.
“I laughed about it too, myself, once.” She wasn’t looking at me. “A friend of my brother’s came home that way from Mons. It seemed like a hell of a joke. Chaps never know anything, do they?”
“Oh, Brett! Brett!” the little Greek portrait-painter, who called himself a duke, and whom everybody called Zizi, pushed up to her. “I got something fine to tell you.”
The bed was far back from the windows, and I sat with the windows open and undressed by the bed. Outside a night train, running on the street-car tracks, went by carrying vegetables to the markets. They were noisy at night when you could not sleep. Undressing, I looked at myself in the mirror of the big armoire beside the bed.
What a speech! I would like to have it illuminated to hang in the office. He never laughed. He was putting himself in my place, I guess. “Che mala fortuna! Che mala fortuna!”
Probably I never would have had any trouble if I hadn’t run into Brett when they shipped me to England. I suppose she only wanted what she couldn’t have. Well, people were that way. To hell with people. The Catholic Church had an awfully good way of handling all that. Good advice, anyway.
I woke up. There was a row going on outside. I listened and I thought I recognized a voice. I put on a dressing-gown and went to the door. The concierge was talking down-stairs. She was very angry. I heard my name and called down the stairs.
“Think he called it a chain. Something like that. Linked them all up. Told me a little about it. Damned interesting. He’s one of us, though. Oh, quite. No doubt. One can always tell.”
She looked at me, her hand on the table, her glass raised. “Don’t look like that,” she said. “Told him I was in love with you. True, too. Don’t look like that. He was damn nice about it. Wants to drive us out to dinner to-morrow night. Like to go?”
No matter what café in Montparnasse you ask a taxi-driver to bring you to from the right bank of the river, they always take you to the Rotonde. Ten years from now it will probably be the Dome. It was near enough, anyway. I walked past the sad tables of the Rotonde to the Select. 
“Just one stuffed dog. I can take ’em or leave ’em alone. But listen, Jake. Just one stuffed dog.” “Come on.” “Mean everything in the world to you after you bought it. Simple exchange of values. You give them money. They give you a stuffed dog.”
“When did you see Harvey Stone?” “At the Crillon. Harvey was just a little daunted. Hadn’t eaten for three days. Doesn’t eat any more. Just goes off like a cat. Pretty sad.”
We crossed to the left bank of the Seine by the wooden foot-bridge from the Quai de Bethune, and stopped on the bridge and looked down the river at Notre Dame. Standing on the bridge the island looked dark, the houses were high against the sky, and the trees were shadows.
We turned to the right off the Place Contrescarpe, walking along smooth narrow streets with high old houses on both sides. Some of the houses jutted out toward the street. Others were cut back.
At Tours we got off and bought another bottle of wine, and when we got back in the compartment the gentleman from Montana and his wife and his son, Hubert, were sitting comfortably.
“They thought we were snappers, all right,” the man said. “It certainly shows you the power of the Catholic Church. It’s a pity you boys ain’t Catholics. You could get a meal, then, all right.”
There were wide fire-gaps cut through the pines, and you could look up them like avenues and see wooded hills way off. About seven-thirty we had dinner and watched the country through the open window in the diner. It was all sandy pine country full of heather.
We got off with our bags and rod-cases and passed through the dark station and out to the lights and the line of cabs and hotel buses. There, standing with the hotel runners, was Robert Cohn. He did not see us at first. Then he started forward.
Bayonne is a nice town. It is like a very clean Spanish town and it is on a big river. Already, so early in the morning, it was very hot on the bridge across the river. We walked out on the bridge and then took a walk through the town.
It was only sixteen francs apiece for Bill and me, with ten per cent added for the service, and we had the bags sent down and waited for Robert Cohn. While we were waiting I saw a cockroach on the parquet floor that must have been at least three inches long. I pointed him out to Bill and then put my shoe on him.
We crossed the Spanish frontier. There was a little stream and a bridge, and Spanish carabineers, with patent-leather Bonaparte hats, and short guns on their backs, on one side, and on the other fat Frenchmen in kepis and mustaches.
They were not in the crowd. We waited till everybody had gone through and out of the station and gotten into buses, or taken cabs, or were walking with their friends or relatives through the dark into the town.
Why I felt that impulse to devil him I do not know. Of course I do know. I was blind, unforgivingly jealous of what had happened to him. The fact that I took it as a matter of course did not alter that any. I certainly did hate him.
“What bloody-fool things people do. Why didn’t she go off with some of her own people? Or you?”—he slurred that over—“or me? Why not me?” He looked at his face carefully in the glass, put a big dab of lather on each cheek-bone.
“She should have. All women should see it. It’s a face that ought to be thrown on every screen in the country. Every woman ought to be given a copy of this face as she leaves the altar.
“My God!” he said, “isn’t it an awful face?” He looked in the glass.
It was quiet in the café. There were a few men sitting at tables against the wall. At one table four men played cards. Most of the men sat against the wall smoking, empty coffee-cups and liqueur-glasses before them on the tables.
He swung these down to the table and a boy who had followed him poured coffee and milk into the glass from two shiny, spouted pots with long handles.
Manuel had taken the wrapper off the lumps of sugar and dropped them into his coffee. He stirred it and drank it down, sweet, hot, and warming in his empty stomach.
“And that ain’t all,” the tall waiter said. “Look what he’s done for Marcial Lalanda. Look what he’s done for Nacional.”
He kicked his suitcase under the table to be sure it was there. Perhaps it would be better to put it back under the seat, against the wall.
Manosduros was Zurito’s nickname. He never heard it without thinking of his huge hands. He put them forward on the table self-consciously.
“You take the bull and give him a little run when he comes out,” Manuel said. “All right,” the gypsy said. His face was serious. He began to think about just what he would do.
The mules went out. The picadors galloped jerkily around the ring, and two rode out the gate they had come in by. The servants swept the sand smooth.
At the end of the swing he was facing the bull again and held the cape in the same position close in front of his body, and pivoted again as the bull recharged. Each time, as he swung, the crowd shouted.
The bull detached himself from the horse and charged the cape, and Manuel, running sideways and holding the cape spread wide, stopped, swung on his heels, and brought the bull sharply around facing Zurito.
At the conclusion of a closely turned pass of the cape the bull slid to
his knees. He was up at once, but far out across the sand Manuel and Zurito saw the shine of the pumping flow of blood, smooth against the black of the bull’s shoulder.
Finally the bull charged, the horse leaders ran for the barrera, the picador hit too far back, and the bull got under the horse, lifted him, threw him onto his back.
Black bull with a horse on his back, staggering short-legged, then arching his neck and lifting, thrusting, charging to slide the horse off, horse sliding down. Then the bull into a lunging charge at the cape Manuel spread for him.
Now he was facing the bull. Yes, his head was going down a little. He was carrying it lower. That was Zurito.
Manuel walked across the sand toward the barrera, while Zurito rode out of the ring. The trumpet had blown to change the act to the planting of the banderillos while Manuel had been working with the bull. He had not consciously noticed it.
The gypsy was walking out toward the bull again, walking heel-and-toe, insultingly, like a ball-room dancer, the red shafts of the banderillos twitching with his walk.
The bull, with his tongue out, his barrel heaving, was watching the gypsy. He thought he had him now. Back against the red planks. Only a short charge away. The bull watched him.
Fuentes came down on his toes, arms straight out, whole body arching forward, and drove the shafts straight down as he swung his body clear of the right horn.
The gypsy came running along the barrera toward Manuel, taking the applause of the crowd. His vest was ripped where he had not quite cleared the point of the horn.
“I dedicate this bull to you, Mr. President, and to the public of Madrid, the most intelligent and generous of the world,” was what Manuel was saying.
Manuel walked toward the bull. The bull looked at him; his eyes were quick. Manuel noticed the way the banderillos hung down on his left shoulder and the steady sheen of blood from Zurito’s pic-ing. He noticed the way the bull’s feet were. 
Manuel walked toward him, watching his feet. This was all right. He could do this. He must work to get the bull’s head down, so he could go in past the horns and kill him. He did not think about the sword, not about killing the bull.
Here he comes. Whoosh! Manuel turned as the bull came and raised the muleta so that it passed over the bull’s horns and swept down his broad back from head to tail. The bull had gone clean up in the air with the charge. Manuel had not moved.
The bull recharged as the pase natural finished and Manuel raised the muleta for a pase de pecho. Firmly planted, the bull came by his chest under the raised muleta. 
The bull lurched with him as he lay on, and seemed to sink; then he was standing clear. He looked at the bull going down slowly over on his side, then suddenly four feet in the air.
The doctor and two men in white were waiting for him. They laid him out on the table. They were cutting away his shirt. Manuel felt tired. His whole chest felt scalding inside. He started to cough and they held something to his mouth. Everybody was very busy.
The doctor said: “That will all pass. You are a fortunate young man. You will play football again like a champion.”
“I am utterly unable to resign myself,” he said and choked. And then crying, his head up looking at nothing, carrying himself straight and soldierly, with tears on both his cheeks and biting his lips, he walked past the machines and out the door.
In front of the machine the major used were three photographs of hands like his that were completely restored. I do not know where the doctor got them.
Close against the side of the station there was the warm shadow of the building and a curtain, made of strings of bamboo beads, hung across the open door into the bar, to keep out flies. The American and the girl with him sat at a table in the shade, outside the building.
The woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads. She put the felt pads and the beer glasses on the table and looked at the man and the girl.
“Yes,” said the girl. “Everything tastes of licorice. Especially all the things you’ve waited so long for, like absinthe.”
“I’ll go with you and I’ll stay with you all the time. They just let the air in and then it’s all perfectly natural.”
“I’ll love it. I love it now but I just can’t think about it. You know how I get when I worry.”
The girl stood up and walked to the end of the station. Across, on the other side, were fields of grain and trees along the banks of the Ebro. Far away, beyond the river, were mountains.
The woman came out through the curtains with two glasses of beer and put them down on the damp felt pads. “The train comes in five minutes,” she said.
“Give me bacon and eggs,” said the other man. He was about the same size as Al. Their faces were different, but they were dressed like twins. Both wore overcoats too tight for them. They sat leaning forward, their elbows on the counter.
George put the two platters, one of ham and eggs, the other of bacon and eggs, on the counter. He set down two side-dishes of fried potatoes and closed the wicket into the kitchen.
Sam, the nigger, standing in his apron, looked at the two men sitting at the counter. “Yes, sir,” he said. Al got down from his stool.
We came down around curves, through deep dust, the dust powdering the olive trees. Spezia spread below along the sea. The road flattened outside the town. Our guest put his head in the window.
“I stop here, so you won’t get into trouble carrying passengers,” he said. “My package.” I handed him the package. He reached in his pocket.
“Then thanks,” the young man said, not “thank you,” or “thank you very much,” or “thank you a thousand times,” all of which you formerly said in Italy to a man when he handed you a time-table or explained about a direction.
“What’s the mechanics of this place?” Guy asked. “Do I have to let her put her arm around my neck?”
The charm of the good side had been enhanced by some event which had smoothed the other side of her nose in, as warm wax can be smoothed. Her nose, however, did not look like warm wax. It was very cold and firmed, only smoothed in. “You like me?” she asked Guy.
“Listen,” the clean-cut young man said. “Don’t bother to talk with these two. I tell you they are worth nothing and I know.”
“Don’t bother with these two,” the clean-cut young man said in a wearied voice. “Come and eat. They are worth nothing.”
We paid the bill and stood up. All the girls, the old woman, and the clean-cut young man sat down at table together. The property sailor sat with his head in his hands.
The girl brought us our change that the old woman counted out for her and went back to her place at the table. We left a tip on the table and went out. 
We started and I waved to her. She did not wave, but stood there looking after us.
Just carts loaded with everything they owned.
A woman having a child had a young girl holding a blanket over her and crying.
It rained all through the evacuation.
We were in a garden at Mons. Young Buckley came in with his patrol from across the river.
The first German I saw climbed up over the garden wall.
We shot them. They all came just like that.
We’d jammed an absolutely perfect barricade across the bridge. It was simply priceless.
Their officers were very fine.
We were frightfully put out when we heard the flank had gone.
They shot the six cabinet ministers at half-past six in the morning.
Nick sat against the wall of the church where they had dragged him to be clear of machine gun fire.
His face was sweaty and dirty. The sun shone on his face.
Nick looked straight ahead brilliantly.
Senta Rinaldi. Senta. You and me, we’ve made a separate peace.
The bombardment was knocking the trench to pieces at Fossalta.
Two Hungarians got into a cigar store at Fifteenth Street and Grand Avenue.
Boyle shot one off the seat of the wagon and one out of the wagon box.
Drevitts got frightened when he found they were both dead.
He and Ag could hear them below on the balcony.
After he got on crutches, he used to take the temperature so Ag would not have to get up.
They wanted to get married, but there was not enough time for the banns.
Ag wrote him many letters that he never got until after the armistice.
They quarreled about her not being willing to come home at once.
It was lonely and rainy there.
The Major did not marry her in the spring, or any other time.
A short time after, he contracted gonorrhea from a salesgirl riding in a taxicab through Lincoln Park.
He reported at Bologna, and I took him with me up into the Romagna.
It was early September and the country was pleasant.
He was a Magyar, a very nice boy and very shy.
In spite of Italy, he believed altogether in the world revolution.
But how is the movement going in Italy? he asked.
But it will go better, he said. You have everything here.
He thanked me very much, but his mind was already looking forward to walking over the pass.
The last I heard of him, the Swiss had him in jail near Sion.
The picador twisted the stirrups straight and pulled up into the saddle.
The bull could not make up his mind to charge.
Villalta cursed the bull and flopped the muleta at him.
Villalta stood straight, the red kilt of the sword sticking out between the bull’s shoulders.
Ag stayed on night duty for three months.
It was understood he would not drink, and he did not want to see his friends.
They wanted everyone to know they were married, but it was just a feeling.
He used to take the temperature so Ag wouldn’t have to.
There was a battalion of arditi quartered in the town.
He contracted gonorrhea from a salesgirl while riding in a taxicab.
He thanked me very much but was already eager to walk over the pass.
The picador twisted the stirrups straight and blood pumped from the horse.
The bull’s horns swung down, bloodied, while the crowd yelled.
The adjutant worried about the fire in my kitchen.
They could hear the whistling and the cheering from below.
I wrote out for him where to eat in Milano.
She liked how white his teeth were when he smiled.
Liz went to the kitchen door to watch for him to start down the road.
Liz thought about Jim all the time while he was gone.
The night before Jim came back, Liz couldn’t sleep at all.
Mrs. Smith and Liz went out when the wagon stopped under the big elm.
Jim grinned and said, “Hello Liz.”
Liz asked, “Did you shoot it, Jim?”
Jim got it onto his back to carry it to the smokehouse.
Liz was sure something would happen when Jim got back.
Jim pulled the burlap sacks off the deer, and Liz looked at them.
One deer was a big buck, stiff and hard to lift.
It was too late for Charley Wyman to get back to Charlevoix that night.
Jim went out to the barn to fetch the jug of whiskey.
Jim took a long pull on the jug before coming back inside.
The two men smiled when Jim came in with the jug.
A. J. poured out three big shots.
“Here’s looking at you, A. J.,” said Charley Wyman.
Jim began to feel great after a few drinks.
Jim loved the taste and feel of whiskey.
The men felt hilarious but acted respectable at dinner.
Liz sat at the table and ate with the family.
Jim's eyes were shining when he came out of the front room.
Jim put his arms around Liz from behind her chair.
Liz was frightened, but she thought, “He’s come to me finally.”
Jim kissed Liz hard, and she didn’t know what to do.
Jim whispered, “Come on for a walk.”
They walked down the sandy road through the trees to the dock.
Liz was hot all over from being with Jim.
Jim pulled Liz close to him as they sat by the warehouse.
Liz was frightened, but she wanted Jim to touch her.
Liz said, “Don’t, Jim.”
Jim didn’t listen to Liz and kept going.
Liz felt uncomfortable and cramped on the dock.
Jim was asleep, and Liz tried to wake him up.
Liz kissed Jim on the cheek, but he was still asleep.
Liz walked to the edge of the dock and looked down at the water.
Liz walked back to Jim and covered him with her coat.
Liz walked up the steep sandy road to go to bed.
A cold mist was coming up through the woods from the bay.
Liz cleaned up after dinner while Jim and Charley were in the front room.
Jim slid his hand further up Liz’s leg, ignoring her protests.
Liz thought Jim had hurt her.
Jim said, “I got to. I’m going to. You know we got to.”
Jim was heavy on her, and the dock was cold and hard.
Liz walked up the steep road, crying.
Liz couldn’t sleep after thinking about Jim all night.
Jim never seemed to notice Liz much.
The bay was usually calm, with whitecaps on the lake.
Liz couldn’t wait until Jim came back from the deer-hunting trip.
Jim lifted the buck out of the wagon and carried it to the smokehouse.
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary.
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore.
"While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping."
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
"'Tis some visitor," I muttered, "tapping at my chamber door—Only this, and nothing more."
"Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December."
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow from my books surcease of sorrow.
"For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore."
Nameless here for evermore.
"And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before."
So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating.
"'Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door—This it is, and nothing more."
Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer.
"Sir," said I, "or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore."
But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping, tapping at my chamber door.
That I scarce was sure I heard you—here I opened wide the door; Darkness there, and nothing more.
Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing.
"Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortals ever dared to dream before."
The silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token.
We had birds, gold-fish, a fine dog, rabbits, a small monkey, and a cat.
This latter was a remarkably large and beautiful animal, entirely black, and sagacious to an astonishing degree.
Pluto—this was the cat's name—was my favourite pet and playmate.
Our friendship lasted in this manner for several years, during which my general temperament and character had experienced a radical alteration for the worse.
"I grew, day by day, more moody, more irritable, more regardless of the feelings of others."
At length, I even offered her personal violence.
My pets of course were made to feel the change in my disposition.
"For Pluto, however, I still retained sufficient regard to restrain me from maltreating him."
But my disease grew upon me—for what disease is like Alcohol!
One night, returning home much intoxicated from one of my haunts about town, I fancied that the cat avoided my presence.
"I seized him, when, in his fright at my violence, he inflicted a slight wound upon my hand with his teeth."
My original soul seemed at once to take its flight from my body, and a more than fiendish malevolence, gin-nurtured, thrilled every fiber of my frame.
I took from my waistcoat-pocket a penknife, opened it, grasped the poor beast by the throat, and deliberately cut one of its eyes from the socket!
When reason returned with the morning—when I had slept off the fumes of the night's debauch—I experienced a sentiment half of horror, half of remorse.
"I again plunged into excess, and soon drowned in wine all memory of the deed."
"In the meantime the cat slowly recovered."
He no longer appeared to suffer any pain, but as might be expected, fled in extreme terror at my approach.
But this feeling soon gave place to irritation.
One morning, in cool blood, I slipped a noose about its neck and hung it to the limb of a tree.
Hung it because I knew that in so doing I was committing a sin—a deadly sin.
I felt every fiber in my frame thrill as if I had touched the wire of a galvanic battery.
The angel forms became meaningless spectres, with heads of flame, and I saw that from them there would be no help.
"I had swooned, but still will not say that all of consciousness was lost."
"In the deepest slumber—no! In delirium—no! In a swoon—no!"
"In death—no! Even in the grave all is not lost."
"Arousing from the most profound of slumbers, we break the gossamer web of some dream."
"In the return to life from the swoon, there are two stages: first, that of the sense of mental or spiritual; secondly, that of the sense of physical existence."
Very suddenly, there came back to my soul motion and sound—the tumultuous motion of the heart.
Then a pause, then again sound, and motion, and touch—a tingling sensation pervading my frame.
I strove to imagine where and what I could be.
I dreaded the first glance at objects around me.
"At length, with a wild desperation at heart, I quickly unclosed my eyes."
"My worst thoughts, then, were confirmed."
The blackness of eternal night encompassed me.
The intensity of the darkness seemed to oppress and stifle me.
"The atmosphere was intolerably close."
Yet not for a moment did I suppose myself actually dead.
I longed, yet dared not, to employ my vision.
I brought to mind the inquisitorial proceedings.
Victims had been in immediate demand.
For many hours the immediate vicinity of the low framework upon which I lay had been literally swarming with rats.
They had devoured all but a small remnant of the contents of the dish.
For the most wild, yet most homely narrative which I am about to pen, I neither expect nor solicit belief.
I grew frantically mad, and struggled to force myself upward against the sweep of the fearful scimitar.
I saw the lips of the black-robed judges.
The more substantial furniture consisted of a round table, a few chairs.
But tomorrow I die, and today I would unburden my soul.
My cognizance of the pit had become known to the inquisitorial agents.
They were wild, bold, ravenous—their red eyes glaring upon me as if they waited but for motionlessness.
A plain, ground-glass astral lamp, with an Italian shade.
With the particles of the oily and spicy viand which now remained, I thoroughly rubbed the bandage.
On a triangular shelf in each angle of the room stood also a similar vase.
I shrank from the glowing metal to the center of the cell.
They clung to the wood—they overran it, and leaped in hundreds upon my person.
Yet mad am I not—and very surely do I not dream.
My excessive fatigue induced me to remain prostrate.
The sweep of the pendulum had increased in extent by nearly a yard.
I forced myself to ponder upon the sound of the crescent as it should pass across the garment.
They upthrew the damp earth upon my bones.
He shrieked once—once only Frontispiece.
Yet I will not attempt to expound them.
The more substantial furniture consisted of a round table, a few chairs.
I put forward my arm, and shuddered to find that I had fallen at the very brink of a circular pit.
The light of enduring Love.
I had advanced some ten or twelve paces in this manner.
From my infancy, I was noted for the docility and humanity of my disposition.
Down—certainly, relentlessly down! It vibrated within three inches of my bosom.
I grew frantically mad, and struggled to force myself upward against the sweep of the fearful scimitar.
And the heat rapidly increased.
Upon my mouldering bones there descended the coffin of Una.
The realities of the world affected me as visions.
There had been a second change in the cell—and now the change was obviously in the form.
But there was no voice throughout the vast, illimitable desert.
It was a wall, seemingly of stone masonry—very smooth, slimy, and cold.
And with its volumes—of which latter I will say no more.
There rolled away days and weeks and months.
The more substantial furniture consisted of a round table, a few chairs.
The analytical power should not be confounded with simple ingenuity.
We existed within ourselves.
There is, however, a remembrance of aerial forms.
The narrative which follows will appear to the reader somewhat in the light of a commentary upon the propositions.
Down—steadily down it crept.
There came thronging upon my recollection a thousand vague rumors.
The earth was trampled, the bushes were broken.
My immediate purpose is to place before the world plainly, succinctly, and without comment.
I put forward my arm and shuddered to find that I had fallen at the very brink of a circular pit.
The odor of the sharp steel forced itself into my nostrils.
There were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding.
My chin rested upon the floor of the prison.
I prayed—I wearied heaven with my prayer.
There rolled away days and weeks and months.
I threw my straining vision below.
I proceeded with extreme caution, for the floor, although seemingly of solid material, was treacherous.
Yet I will not attempt to expound them.
To me they presented little but horror.
Demon eyes, of a wild and ghastly vivacity, glared upon me in a thousand directions.
It vibrated within three inches of my bosom.
He shrieked once—once only.
I grew frantically mad, and struggled to force myself upward.
I panted! I gasped for breath!
My lips, and the upper portion of my head, although seemingly at a less elevation than the chin, touched nothing.
My cognizance of the pit had become known.
My forehead seemed bathed in a clammy vapor.
I tore a part of the hem from the robe and placed the fragment at full length.
Then I shrieked aloud.
With the particles of the oily and spicy viand which now remained, I thoroughly rubbed the bandage.
It might have been that many days passed.
My tenderness of heart was even so conspicuous as to make me the jest of my companions.
The boat appeared to be hanging, as if by magic.
I proceeded with extreme caution, for the floor, although seemingly of solid material.
Keeping time, time, time, in a sort of Runic rhyme.
To the tintinnabulation that so musically wells.
From the bells, bells, bells, bells.
Bells, bells, bells—From the jingling and the tinkling of the bells.
Hear the mellow wedding bells—Golden bells!
What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
Through the balmy air of night, how they ring out their delight!
From the molten-golden notes, and all in tune.
What a liquid ditty floats to the turtle-dove that listens, while she gloats.
On the moon!
Oh, from out the sounding cells what a gush of euphony voluminously wells!
How it swells! How it dwells on the Future!
How it tells of the rapture that impels.
To the swinging and the ringing of the bells, bells, bells.
Of the bells, bells, bells, bells.
To the rhyming and the chiming of the bells!
Hear the loud alarum bells—Brazen bells!
What a tale of terror, now, their turbulency tells!
In the startled ear of night how they scream out their affright!
Too much horrified to speak, they can only shriek, shriek.
Out of tune, in a clamorous appealing to the mercy of the fire.
In a mad expostulation with the deaf and frantic fire.
Leaping higher, higher, higher, with a desperate desire.
With a resolute endeavor now—now to sit or never, by the side of the pale-faced moon.
Oh, the bells, bells, bells! What a tale their terror tells of despair!
How they clang, and clash, and roar!
What a horror they outpour on the bosom of the palpitating air!
Yet the ear it fully knows by the twanging and the clanging.
How the danger ebbs and flows; yet the ear distinctly tells.
In the jangling and the wrangling, how the danger sinks and swells.
By the sinking or the swelling in the anger of the bells—of the bells.
Of the bells, bells, bells—In the clamor and the clangor of the bells!
Hear the tolling of the bells—Iron bells!
What a world of solemn thought their monody compels!
In the silence of the night, how we shiver with affright at the melancholy menace of their tone.
The physical and metaphysical aspects of existence are one and the same
From the oneness of the original state, all diversity and multiplicity have arisen
The force that binds the universe together will one day bring all things back to unity
In this universe, nothing exists in isolation, everything is connected by invisible threads
Even the stars in their courses are bound by the same principle of unity
Ultimately, all things will return to their original, unified state
No man has thought of whirling on his heel.
He who stands at the top of a mountain is affected by the extent and diversity of the scene.
"We require something like a mental gyration on the heel to grasp the whole."
The nearest approach to such a work is found in the 'Cosmos' of Alexander Von Humboldt.
The design of the universe is simply synœretical.
"An irresistible intuition forces me to the conclusion of unity in all things."
The sweeping law of attraction holds all things together.
Man’s intellect has always been broader in capacity than many suppose.
The body and the soul are two aspects of the same essence.
The universe is but the shadow of the soul itself.
"The most solemn subject that I present to the reader is the relationship between matter and spirit."
"In the beginning, there was nothing but unity, from which all things arose."
"The one force that exists and governs all matter is gravitation."
The atoms are bound together by the force of unity.
"Through unity, we understand the relationship of all matter and existence."
God’s work can be found in every part of the universe, in all matter and space.
"The plan of the universe is not to be questioned, but our understanding of it must evolve."
In the original unity of the first thing lies the cause of all subsequent things.
The purpose of existence is hidden in the laws of attraction and repulsion.
"Gravity binds all matter to its source and origin."
The universe expands as it contracts, folding in upon itself in cycles.
"We perceive the unity of all life and matter in the vast cosmos."
Matter and spirit are two sides of the same coin, forever intertwined in a cosmic dance.
The heavens and the earth reflect the same force, bound by universal laws.
"The physical and metaphysical aspects of existence are one and the same."
From the oneness of the original state, all diversity and multiplicity have arisen.
"The force that binds the universe together will one day bring all things back to unity."
"In this universe, nothing exists in isolation, everything is connected by invisible threads."
Even the stars in their courses are bound by the same principle of unity.
“Annie told me,” said Caroline, without missing a beat.
Annie is our house parlour maid.
“The milkman told the cook,” my sister continued.
Mrs. Ferrars died of an overdose of veronal.
Caroline shook her head decisively.
“She took it on purpose, James, don’t tell me otherwise!”
A widow, still fairly young, well-off, in good health.
“Why should Mrs. Ferrars commit suicide?”
“Even you must have noticed how different she’s been lately.”
I made my way home, walking faster than usual.
He seemed unusually cheerful as he left Fernly Park.
“Mr. Ackroyd knew me in London,” he said with a little smirk.
The garden stretched out beyond the house.
“He’s in London,” said Ackroyd, his tone uncertain.
Parker was at the door, waiting for instructions.
The evening air was chilly, a reminder that autumn was setting in.
Ralph’s manner had seemed odd, distant somehow.
“Come back tonight,” he said suddenly, as though deciding something important.
Parker poured the wine with precision, not spilling a drop.
A letter lay on the desk, unopened.
“Ralph is in London,” Ackroyd repeated, his voice a little louder this time.
Flora looked radiant in the soft glow of the lamps.
“You’ll be a very rich man, Ralph,” Ackroyd had told him.
“Everything depends on you keeping quiet,” Ralph whispered.
Parker stood at attention, his face impassive.
“Good evening, doctor,” Raymond called as he passed by with papers.
A man had been seen leaving Fernly Park that night.
The village gossip had grown worse since Mrs. Ferrars' death.
The letter was unmistakably in her handwriting.
“She was blackmailed,” Ackroyd said softly.
The clock struck nine, echoing throughout the house.
The French windows were open slightly, letting in the cool night air.
“The letter,” Ackroyd muttered, clutching it tightly.
The envelope had been sealed carefully, as though it held something precious.
“Parker, don’t let anyone disturb us,” Ackroyd instructed firmly.
He paced the room, his face lined with worry.
Flora had been very pale that day, barely speaking a word.
Ackroyd's study was dimly lit, papers scattered across his desk.
“I can’t keep it to myself any longer,” he said abruptly.
I left him sitting at his desk, still holding the letter.
The moon cast long shadows on the garden below.
Parker’s footsteps echoed in the hallway as he returned to the study.
I had a strong feeling that something terrible was about to happen.
“There’s no going back now,” Ackroyd said with finality.
“You shut the window, didn’t you?” he asked nervously.
“Yes, I did,” I confirmed, growing more uneasy by the minute.
“This letter changes everything,” Ackroyd whispered.
The sound of the clock ticking filled the silence between us.
I stepped outside, the cool air clearing my thoughts.
The village seemed peaceful, but my mind was anything but calm.
“We’ve all been jolly hard up since the marriage.”
“He turned up from nowhere and the mater took to him at once.”
“But you could have knocked us all down with a feather when she announced her engagement.”
"There were rumors flying everywhere after Mrs. Cavendish's sudden marriage."
“He’s got a great black beard, and wears patent leather boots.”
“We’ve all been miserable since this stranger came into our lives.”
“The house at Styles was large, with a fine garden at the front.”
"John Cavendish was there to pick me up from the train station."
"The house, like the village, seemed far removed from the chaos of the world beyond."
“We’ve a drop or two of petrol still, thanks to the mater’s activities.”
"It was a fine day when I arrived at Styles."
“I’m afraid you’ll find it very quiet down here, Hastings.”
“My dear fellow, that’s just what I want.”
“Cynthia works in the Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster.”
“She’s been with us nearly two years now.”
"The Red Cross hospital was seven miles away from Styles."
“As soon as I saw Evie, I knew she was no ordinary woman.”
"The garden was well kept, even during wartime."
“I will say, Styles Court is a remarkable house.”
"The dining room at Styles was a grand affair."
"I felt that the house had seen better days, yet it retained a certain grandeur."
“After all those years, you never quite get used to a place like Styles.”
"The hallways echoed with the history of the family."
“It’s awfully good of you to invite me down to Styles.”
"The village of Styles St. Mary lay some distance from the nearest town."
"John piloted me through the house, pointing out rooms as we went."
“It’s strange being back after so long.”
"The house seemed both familiar and foreign after all these years."
"There was a distinct air of tension between John and his mother."
“He’s always been under her thumb.”
"The garden at Styles was a beautiful oasis, untouched by the outside world."
"As we sat down to dinner, I could feel a certain unease in the air."
“You don’t know what you’re getting into, Hastings.”
“I’m afraid life at Styles isn’t quite what it used to be.”
"The house was full of rooms, each with its own story to tell."
"Despite the outward calm, there was a distinct tension in the household."
“Styles may look calm, but it’s not without its secrets.”
"We sat down for a quiet dinner, but the air was heavy with unspoken words."
“There’s more to this house than meets the eye.”
“What you don’t realize, Hastings, is that Styles is full of surprises.”
“The longer you stay, the more you’ll see.”
“It’s a strange feeling being back at Styles after all these years.”
"The village seemed so peaceful, but there was always something lurking beneath the surface."
“John, what have you gotten yourself into?”
"Dinner was quiet, though the tension between mother and son was palpable."
"The next morning, I took a walk around the grounds."
"The peace of the garden was a stark contrast to the turmoil inside the house."
"As I wandered the halls, I couldn’t help but feel that something was amiss."
“There’s a lot more to this house than meets the eye.”
“Sometimes, it feels like the walls have eyes at Styles.”
“What is commonly meant by the phrase, ‘The Big Four?’”
“I suppose it had its origin at the Versailles Conference.”
“It refers to a gang of international criminals.”
“Hercule Poirot’s fame had spread far and wide.”
“Number One is Li Chang Yen.”
“Number Two is an American.”
“Number Three is a Frenchwoman.”
The unexpected guest arrived just as Poirot finished packing.
“Good heavens! How did this happen?” I exclaimed.
“M. Hercule Poirot, 14 Farraway Street,” the man repeated.
“What does it mean, Poirot?”
Poirot looked at me gravely. “This is only the beginning.”
“The Big Four represent a massive international conspiracy.”
“It is a battle, Hastings, and we are only at the first move.”
“You have heard of the soap king, Abe Ryland?”
“What could be more dangerous than the ambitions of a man like Ryland?”
“We must leave for Rio at once.”
“We are being watched, Hastings, I am certain of it.”
“Do you not understand? They are trying to get rid of me.”
“Hercule Poirot will not be easily defeated.”
“There is something very sinister going on.”
“They will stop at nothing, Hastings.”
“We are dealing with the most dangerous criminals the world has ever known.”
“I begin to see the shape of things.”
“Li Chang Yen may be considered the mastermind.”
“But what is the aim of the Big Four?”
“They seek nothing less than world domination.”
“We must be careful, Hastings.”
“This is a conspiracy of the highest order.”
“You must trust me, Hastings.”
“The situation is more dangerous than you realize.”
“Our only hope is to stay one step ahead.”
“Hastings, we are walking into a trap.”
“Everything depends on this next move.”
“There is more at stake than you can imagine.”
“The world may be in grave danger.”
“We cannot afford to make a single mistake.”
“We are not alone, Hastings.”
“Others are involved in this conspiracy.”
“The Big Four have agents everywhere.”
“We must strike before they do.”
“Time is running out, Hastings.”
“Everything depends on this next mission.”
“Li Chang Yen is not to be underestimated.”
“The future of the world may rest in our hands.”
“We must not fail, Hastings.”
“The Big Four have already struck, and they will strike again.”
“Every moment we delay is a moment they gain.”
“The final battle is approaching.”
“We must be prepared for anything.”
Hercule Poirot’s methods were his own.
“But what is commonly meant by the phrase, ‘The Big Four?’”
The man handed Poirot a note. “What does it mean?” I asked.
“Poirot, I suppose it’s time to unravel this mystery.”
“M. Renauld was a man who led a life full of secrets.”
“I had no idea he was calling in a detective.”
There was a safe in his dressing room.
“Pardon, madame, for interrupting,” Poirot said with a bow.
“They took my husband away, and I could do nothing.”
“I heard the clock on the mantelpiece strike two.”
Poirot tapped his head significantly. “The little grey cells, mon ami.”
“The room was spotless—everything in perfect order.”
A fragment of a cheque lay on the floor.
“That’s odd,” remarked Poirot, picking up a long black hair from the back of the chair.
The body lay facedown in the open grave.
“He was stabbed between the shoulder blades.”
“There was no sign of a struggle.”
“It’s curious he only wore underclothes beneath his overcoat.”
“Was there anything in his pockets?”
“The hands of the smashed wristwatch pointed to seven o’clock.”
“Could this ‘Bella’ be connected to the case?”
“It must have been someone who knew the house.”
“He cried, ‘For God’s sake, go now!’”
“The letter was a warning, but it came too late.”
“Someone had searched through the drawers.”
“He knew he was in danger.”
“A short, stout man with a red beard held her captive.”
“They tied me up, and then they took him away.”
“A desperate struggle must have taken place in the dressing room.”
“There was a second body—hidden away in the shed.”
“He was last seen near the beach.”
“We must find the second woman mentioned in the letter.”
“Poirot, it seems we’re dealing with something much larger.”
“This is not a simple case of jealousy.”
“The plot goes deeper than we first thought.”
“The commissary questioned everyone thoroughly.”
“The villa was quiet, with no signs of forced entry.”
“A letter signed ‘Bella’ was found in his pocket.”
“He was involved with a woman—but it wasn’t just an affair.”
“This man was no amateur. He was cold and calculating.”
“The safe had been emptied—money was missing.”
“A dagger was found by the body.”
“Poirot noticed the faintest of footprints in the gravel.”
“She was tall, with golden hair, and her eyes were anxious.”
“This was planned—nothing was left to chance.”
“The letter he wrote to Poirot had been tampered with.”
“Someone else knew he had written to Poirot.”
“They must have intercepted the letter.”
“He was involved in a dangerous game.”
“The case was much more than a simple murder—it was a conspiracy.”